Let's go to our workspace environment here,
and we're looking at kdtree.h.
So here's how I did the insert method.
So this is a recursive function,
so I'm going to be calling this insertHelper.
This is going to be this recursive helper for me,
and here's how I'm defining it.
So I really want to be able to reassign this node in the tree.
When I hit it and it's null,
I want to be able to reassign it.
So I'm actually going to be passing in this address,
this memory address for root.
So that's I'm starting at the root and then say, "Okay.
Here's the memory address for root," and we'll see how this is going to come in handy.
So let's go ahead and have this insertHelper function now.
The other things that we're passing into our recursive function here is the depth.
It starts out as a depth zero.
We're at the root, and then here's this information that we need to create
this brand new node which is our point and our id.
So an insertHelper, what's the first thing that we do?
We check if our node is null.
Now remember, here we're passing in.
We have this double pointer.
So node pointer was actually what root was to begin with.
Now, we're doing the memory address of this pointer node.
So it's a double pointer,
and so it's just a memory address
that's pointing at our node that we're currently on the tree.
What this means is that we dereference it to actually see what it's value is.
If it's null, then we're going to go ahead and
dereference our node here, and we're going to set it.
We're going to say, "Hey, root pointer.
This is a new data that you should be pointing at now."
We are going to assign it this brand new node.
All we need to do that is our point and id.
So that's how you can actually reassign this node in the tree.
You can use this double pointer in order to do it.
You could also use a pointer reference in order to do it.
That could work as well. Then you wouldn't have to dereference it here.
So there's different options that you can do for that.
But here's what you do if you're not at a nodal point.
You're going to traverse the tree,
so we're not a null node.
So we're going to keep traversing the tree,
and how do we figure out how to traverse a tree?
Well, it all depends on the current depth.
So we're calling this cd,
it's an unsigned int,
and we're not going to have negative current depths,
we're just going to have positive ones.
So its unsigned and the order to figure that out,
we're working with a 2D case.
So it's just going to be depth mode two.
Is the depth even or odd?
If it's even, so we're doing the x-values.
So we can just index directly into the point here.
Our points is a vector.
So our cd's either going to be zero or one.
If it's zero, that's going to look at the x-values.
We're going to see if it's less than dereference or node here, its point x-value.
So we're doing comparison.
Our brand new point x-value compared to the current node that we're at x-value.
If it's less than,
we're going to branch off to the left.
So we're going to call our insertHelper method again.
We're going to pass it in once again the address.
But this time for dereference nodes left child.
So we're going to branch off to the left,
and we're going to go ahead and increment our depth
by one because we're flowing down into the tree.
Also, give it our point and id.
Otherwise, if it's not less than and it's greater than or equal,
then we're going to go ahead and branch off to the right.
So exactly the same thing,
but instead of going left, we go right,
and this insertHelper will actually terminate when it hits a null node.
Something pop-ups.
Go into Build,maximize the scale.
Cluster that CPP, and now,
we'll be able to go through and insert all those points and
go ahead and call render tree and see what that looks like.
So we'll come over here. We'll create that build.
We'd do that cmake.dot and then run make,
and see what that looks like.
That should be quiz cluster,
and there's our tree.
So after building the kdtree,
this is what it looks like for splitting each of those regions across x and y dimensions.